Hand gesture recognition technique steps vary from simple to complex 
applications. Generally, the steps are usually divided as the following:
1. Hand gesture frame acquisition
2. Hand tracking
3. Feature extraction
4. Classification

Modules

*Data Acquisition Module -. In this phase the image is captured using 
dataset. Images are saved in a folder and divided the images into 2 sections like 
testing and training. In our project data set we build a new dataset of 600 images 
of 80% training section and 20% testing section.

*Data Preprocessing Module - The step of data preprocessing plays a very 
important role in contributing to the accuracy of any training model. In our
project, we mainly perform, 
        • Annotation - Data annotation is the process of labeling the data available 
in various formats like text, video or images. For supervised machine 
learning labeled data sets are required, so that machine can easily and 
clearly understand the input patterns. Data annotation encompasses the 
text, images and videos to annotate or label the content of object of 
interest in the images while ensuring the accuracy to make sure it can be 
recognized by the machine.

*Classification Module - This module identifies and classifies the data given.
The main aim of the proposed work is to enrich the true meaning of gesture by 
Faster R-CNN & Inception.Inception is stands like back bone of this network.
Here the captured image can determine the true meaning of that particular image 
and display it. Also, it can classify the different type of same label images using 
Faster R-CNN method.
In the first stage, the images are undergone through preprocessing stage.
Our application takes video inputs of the dance form and gives out the 
corresponding meaning of the hand mudra.Faster R-CNN processes the input 
images and classify into different categories. The second step is feeding the 
preprocessed images to the Faster R-CNN. The Faster R -CNN model will learn 
from the features that have been extracted from the input images. Out of 
total 600 images,80% taken as training section and 20% taken as testing section.
By using fast-RCNN testing section is faster than other methods. And accuracy is 
greater than others. The comparison among many classification methods shows 
that Faster R-CNN shows best performance.